Hey guys, this is Lecture 25,
Reading and Writing Text Files.
,So throughout this section
we're gonna be inputting and
outputting different file formats for
panda's data frame.
In order to do that, I've just already
imported the regular numpy as mp,
pandas as pd, and then from pandas
I've imported series and data frame.
So first things first, we're gonna have to
get or make a CSV file, you can either get
this from the additional material or
you can make your own.
So, I've opened up Notepad, or
you can open up really any text editor.
I've put in just some letters or
numbers, and
then at the end a word,
all separated by commas.
And so, I'm gonna say, File save this as,
I'm gonna go to where my IPython notebooks
are saved, and these are actually
saved in IPython notebooks.
And let me just check to make
sure that they're all there.
So I select all files.
So yeah,
all the lectures I've been doing are here.
So our Lecture 25 is here.
So, I'm gonna say .txt, actually,
Im gonna say all files, and
then save this as a .csv file.
So let's go ahead and save that.
So now I have lec25 saved as a .csv.
Let's see how we can open it.
So, it's in the same
location as lecture 25.
So I don't need to call
a specific file location.
So, all I have to do is say read_csv,
and then the name of the file,
lec25.csv.
And it's read it, so lets go ahead and
see what that looks like as a data frame.
Nice.
So if you noticed something that happened
here is, it used the comma as a delimiter.
And, it also set that first row
as the index of the columns,
or as the column names I should say.
So, what's another way we can do that?
Well, if we didn't want that
first row to be the column names.
I can say dframe = pd.read_csv.
Again, I put in the name of my file,
lec25.csv, and
in this case,
I'm gonna say my header = None.
So there is no header, so
it's gonna just index it automatically.
So let's see what happens.
Now let's take a look at my dframe.
Nice.
So,
now you can see it's inputted
the whole thing as a four by
five data frame, and
it's automatically indexed the rows and
columns, just numerically, so
we didn't use that first row there.
A different way to import
CSV files is using the read_table method,
so
the read_table method is just
a more generic version of read_csv,
so I can say read_table.
Again, I just import that
file name as an argument,
and then I have to, since it's read_table,
it doesn't know it's a CSV file,
I have to indicate what the delimiter,
or what that separator is.
And then we're gonna say,
header=None, and let's see if
we get the same thing here, dframe.
And we do, we get the same thing.
We just had to indicate that
the separator was a comma.
So read_table can then read anything,
no matter what its delimiter is.
A delimiter's just a thing
separating every variable.
Yeah, so we can also do it that way.
We can also indicate a particular
number of rows to be read.
So, if we have a really big file and
we don't want to read all the rows
as a data frame, we can indicate
the specific number of rows.
The way to do that is we can just say,
pd.read_csv.
I'm not gonna save it as a data frame.
I just want to show you guys,
so I'll say, lec25.csv.
Again, I'll state the header=None,
and then I can pass the argument nrows,
and that's the number of rows to be read.
So if I only wanted to read,
let's say the first two rows,
I just pass nrows equals 2, and
it'll only read the first two rows.
So let's see the whole data frame again,
the original one, dframe.
Cool.
So, what if I had a data frame but
I wanted to export it?
So an output of the file.
Well, that's also really easy.
I can just say dframe In this case if I
wanna do a CSV file, I just say to_csv.
And then the argument I have to
pass is what I wanna call the file.
So in this case,
I'll just say mytextdata_ out.csv
And now it's saved as a text file.
So you'll see this file where
your IPython notebooks are saved.
So go ahead and check your folder.
See if you actually see this file there.
I'll open up my folder, see if it's there,
so I'll go to My Documents,
go to my IPython Notebooks,
and let's sort it by date modified.
And, here it is, mytextdata _out.
Cool.
So we've learned how
to export it as a CSV.
We can also use other delimiters.
So we can separate with other
things that are not just commas.
I'm gonna import right now, sys, system.
I'm doing that so I can see the output
directly, and not have to save it.
You'll see what I mean in a second.
So let's say I said dframe.to_csv.
Instead of writing
a file name,
I'm just gonna write sys.stdout.
That's just to show you
guys what the output is.
So I'm not actually saving this file,
I'm just showing you the output.
And then, back to the idea of
using a different delimiter.
I'm just gonna write stdout, and
I can indicate my what's
separating every variable.
So let's say I wanted to use
an underscore as a separator.
I can do that too.
And now instead of commas,
it'll do underscores.
So, if you wanted to save this
file of a different separator,
you can go ahead and do that.
I'll show you another example,
just to make sure you understand
the concept of the delimiter.
Let's just say sys.stdout, and
I'll use a different separator.
In this case, one that you
probably wouldn't want to use but,
?, let's see what happens.
Think about what you'd expect to happen.
Check if you're right.
So now every variable is separated by
a question mark, so that makes sense.
We can also choose to write only
a specific subset of columns
to the CSV file.
If I wanted to do that,
I can just say to_csv.
Again, I won't name the file,
I'll just use stdout to see the output.
And let's say I only wanted
the first three columns.
So I'll say columns=[0,1,2].
And if we scroll back up and
look at our data frame,
that would be these first three columns,
0,1,2, the q, r, s, 2, 3, 4,
a, s, d, 5, 2, 5 columns,
let's go ahead and see what happens.
And that's what I get out on the CSV,
0,1,2.
q, r, s, 1, 2, 3, 4,
with the index still there.
So that 0, 1, 2, 3 is the index, in
case you ever wanted to import it again.
So there's tons of built-in
CSV reader methods for Python.
And I'm gonna just put
the link as a string.
So you can check out this URL.
It's in the IPython Notebook
that goes with this lecture.
It's just a docs python for CSV, for
other built-in native methods in Python.
Let's go ahead and
check out the link, so there's a nice
common separated value reader format and
there's a bunch of stuff you can do.
This stuff is integrated directly with
Python, not Pandas, so you can also
mess around with that, in case you want to
do something outside of pandas with CSV.
So I'll let you check
that out on your own,
we won't really be using
it throughout this course,
since pandas already has a really
nice built in CSV reader.
Cool, so that's about it for
text files and CSV files.
Next, we're gonna learn about reading and
writing JSON data.
All right, I'll see you there.